Title: Draft of Youth Probation Guide
Author: Jessica Sofio	
Description:

Q(N):Did you receive a "Notice to Appear in Court For a Violation of Probation?"
A: Yes
	Q(N.1): YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO A LAWYER! 
		 Do not miss your hearing! The Notice has a date for your “Detention Hearing”, if detention is requested. 
	A:What happens if I miss my hearing?
		Q(N.1.1): If you do not show up to court, you may be arrested. 
		A:Tell me more.
			Q(N.1.1.1): Coming soon.
			
		A: Okay, got it. Tell me more about the Detention Hearing.
			Q(N.1.1.2): GOTO:DH
	A:Click Here To Learn What to Expect at Your Detention Hearing.
		Q(N.1.2):GOTO:DH
A: No
	Q(N.2):A notice may be on its way via mail.
		 YOU MAY WANT TO CHECK IF THE COURT HAS YOUR CORRECT MAILING ADDRESS

Q(DH):At the Detention Hearing, a probation officer tells the Judge why they believe you violated your probation. The probation officer may ask the Judge to order detention or “conditions of release”.

A: Tell me more about "conditions of release."
	Q(DH.1):Conditions of Release: Are the rules you must obey so you can stay in your community.
	
	A:Okay, got it. Tell me what happens Next.
		Q(DH.1.1): GOTO:PC
A:Tell me what happens next.
	Q(DH.3): GOTO:PC

Q(PC):At the Detention Hearing the Judge decides if there is “probable cause” that you violated probation. Probable cause means the Judge has enough reason to believe you violated your probation conditions. 

A:What happens if the Judge determines there is probable cause?
	Q(PC.1): GOTO:YESPC
A:What happens if the Judge determines there is not probable cause?
	Q(PC.2): GOTO:NOPC

Q(YESPC):If the Judge decides there is probable cause that you violated your probation conditions, the Judge can 
	1)hold you in detention with no bail until your final hearing. You could be there for up to 15 days. OR
	2)Not order you to go to detention. You are responsible to follow the previous conditions or you may get new conditions of release.
REMINDER: Make sure to meet with your lawyer about all your rights and options! If you do not know who your lawyer is, ask your probation officer. 
A: Okay, got it. Please tell me about the Second Court Date: Probation Violation Hearing
	Q(YESPC.1):GOTO:PVH	

Q(NOPC): You don't go to detention and you show up at the next court date. The Judge could dismiss the violation(s).
A: Okay, got it. Please tell me about the Second Court Date: Probation Violation Hearing
	Q(NOPC.1):GOTO:PVH

Q(PVH):The court will set a date for a 2nd hearing. The 2nd hearing is a “Probation Violation Hearing”. At this hearing, the Probation Department must prove “it is more likely than not” that you violated your probation. This is called “preponderance of the evidence.” 
	 The Judge will either find that you did or you did not violate your probation.

A: What happens if the Judge determines there was a violation of probation?
	Q(PVH.1):GOTO:YESVP

A: What happens if the Judge does not find a violation of probation?
	Q(PVH.2):GOTO:NOVP

Q(YESVP): If the Judge finds that you have violated your probation, 
	The Judge may order you to continue your original conditions of probation.
	The Judge may order you to be committed to the Department of Youth Services.
	The Judge may change your probation by:
	-Adding or taking away conditions
	-Keeping you on probation longer
	-Change the finding in your case to “adjudicated delinquent” or “guilty” if you are on a continued without a finding(CWOF)
	OR Yor probation is over.



Q(NOVP): IF the Judge decides that there has not been a probation violation, 
	You will be continued on probation with the original probation
	OR Your probation is over.

	